Solar system simulation: READ.ME

	SS_sim3: What is it?

SS_sim3 is the perant program for the simulation, it is the prgram which the user will interactive with.
SS_sim3 has 4 other functions aside from being a crude user interface.

The first of these function is using a loop to repeatedly update bodies information
 at set time intervals.
The second is sending and feeding data from the user to the other programs that need it such and information
about the intial stats of the system or the desired incremental time-steps.
Thirdly the SS_sim3 program internally logs the data at each timestep using set 
lists for each body this then enable SS_sim3 to internally plot the simulations results,
this was important for the development faze external plotting slows down the simulation and often had 
no benefit during development.
		
The final function of SS_sim3 is to externally log the data each timestep.
This is done to an external file called "SimulationDataFile.npy" .



	SS_sim3: User guide.

	changing calcuation method.
The simulation can run uses 2 different ways of updating planetary motion in its current verson.
Euler forward motion updater, and Euler-romer motion updater.
in order to select which of these methods to use please locate line 18. 
once done replace the value on the RHS of the equation with either a "1" for Euler forwrd method and
"2" for Euler-Cromer method.

	editing variables
In order to change the timescale of the simuation please locate the line 22.
 where it says Time final on the RHS please replace the default values with your desired simulation length (seconds).

In order to change the time-tep of the simuation please locate the line 23.
 where it says Time step, on the RHS please replace the default values with your desired simulation timestep* (seconds). 

*The larger your timestep the faster your simulation will run but the less accurately it will approximate motion.

Laststly inputting the desired bodies into your system please locate lines 34 to 46, here is where the bodies data is stored
please start a new line and enter the body and corrisponding data in this format,

Name = Particle.Particle([x,y,z], [V_x,V_y,V_z], [A_x,A_y,A_z], "Name", Mass, Kinetic energy deltaT)

replace all the placeholder varibles with your own data (keeping to the strict ordered format shown)
 except for one varible, deltaT must be left as deltaT for the simulation function properly
lastly locate line 50 and append your body(s) to the end of the list here making sure to 
enter the name inside both brackets and to seperate each name by "," .


 
	Particle: What is it?

Particle has 2 total functions, 1 of which is acheived using 1 of two methods.
Particle takes the data of a body and updates the position and velocity vectors using either
EUler forward or Euler_Cromer depending on what the user has selected in SS_sim3.
The other function fo particle is to take the Kinetic energy and to update it using the newly calculate velocity of a body.

	Particle: User guide

The user should not need to edit this program in any way provided they have used the SS_sim3 user input correctly.

	Acc_calc: What is it?

Also known as solar_system Acc_calc has 1 function which is to update the acceleration of each body.
To do this acc calc takes a body out of the list of bodies
and finds the acceleration acting upon this body from all the other bodies in the list
it then returns this value to SS_sim3. once the value is return Acc_calc then repeats this for the next body and so on,
until all bodies have been updated.


	Acc_calc: User guide

The user should not need to edit this program in any way provided they have used the SS_sim3 user input correctly.


	Analysis: What is it?

The analysis program has 3 functions to load and read data from an external file,
to internally log this data and to plot the resulting data for the user.

This program is used when a long simulation is ran and the uer wants to
preform analysis on the data without rerunning the simulation.
This is mostly useful for running multiple anaysis and plots of a single simulation.

	Analysis:User guide

The default analysis file will plot 3 things over the simulation's original timescale.
firstly the motion of the bodies in 3 spacial dimentions will be plotted.
The kinetic energy of each body will be plotted on a log(KE) scale against time and the total kenetic energy 
of the system against time.  If the user wants to preform additional analysis or plots
they will need to edit the program differently depending on the analysis they want to produce.
The main adivce for this is for ammature coders to attempt to mirror the format of
the premade plotting functions whenever relevant.









